README.md, before:

# Banuba AI Video Editor SDK. Integration sample for iOS.
Banuba [Video Editor SDK](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) allows you to add a fully-functional video editor with Tiktok-like features, AR filters and effects in your app. The following guide explains how you can integrate our SDK into your iOS project. 

<p align="center">
<img src="mdDocs/gif/camera_preview.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto">&nbsp;
<img src="mdDocs/gif/audio_browser.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto"/>&nbsp;
<img src="mdDocs/gif/editor_timeline.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto"/>&nbsp;
</p>

- [Requirements](#Requirements)
- [Dependencies](#Dependencies)
- [SDKs size](#SDKs-size)
- [Free Trial](#Free-Trial)
- [Token](#Token)
- [What can you customize?](#What-can-you-customize)
- [Configure AR cloud](#Configure-AR-cloud)
- [Getting Started](#Getting-Started)
    + [Setup SSH key for GitHub](#Setup-SSH-key-for-GitHub)
    + [CocoaPods](#CocoaPods)
    + [Start Video Editor from ViewController](#Start-Video-Editor-from-ViewController)
    + [Configure export flow](#Configure-export-flow)
    + [Configure screens](#Configure-screens)
    + [Icons](#Icons)
    + [Localization](#Localization)
- [FAQ](#FAQ)
- [Third party libraries](#Third-party-libraries)

## Requirements
- Iphone devices 6+
- Swift 5+
- Xcode 12.4+
- iOS 11.0+  

## Dependencies

- [Banuba Face AR SDK](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters). *Optional*

## SDKs size

If you utilize the AR technology with masks (like Tiktok or Snapchat) you would need to have [Face AR module](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters), produced by Banuba. Alternatively, you may just have the app that shoots the video/pics and edit it with no AR feature. Depending on your choice, the SDK size will vary:
| Options | Mb      | Note |
| -------- | --------- | ----- |
| :white_check_mark: Face AR SDK + bitcode enabled  | 42 | AR effect sizes are not included. AR effect takes 1-3 MB in average.
| :x: Face AR SDK + bitcode enabled | 19 | no AR effects  |  

## Free Trial  
We offer а free 14-days trial for you could thoroughly test and assess Video Editor SDK functionality in your app. To get access to your trial, please, get in touch with us by [filling a form](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) on our website. Our sales managers will send you the trial token. Put it into the app, as described below, to run the SDK.  

## Token 
We offer а free 14-days trial for you could thoroughly test and assess Video Editor SDK functionality in your app. To get access to your trial, please, get in touch with us by [filling a form](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) on our website. Our sales managers will send you the trial token.

Video Editor token should be put [here](https://github.com/Banuba/ve-sdk-ios-integration-sample/blob/main/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L29).


## What can you customize?

We understand that the client should have options to brand video editor to bring its own experience to the market. Therefore we provide list of options to customize:

:white_check_mark: Use your branded icons. [See details](#Configure-screens)  
:white_check_mark: Use you branded colors. [See details](#Configure-screens)  
:white_check_mark: Change text styles i.e. font, color. [See details](#Configure-screens)    
:white_check_mark: Localize and change text resources. Default locale is :us:  
:white_check_mark: Make content you want i.e. a number of video with different resolutions and durations, an audio file. [See details](#Configure-export-flow)  
:x: Change layout  
:x: Change screen order

:exclamation: We do custom UX/UI changes as a separate contract. Please contact our sales@banuba.com.

### Configure AR cloud

The video editor is able to download AR effects from Banuba server to provide more effects in video editor and save your app size .

Please check out [step-by-step guide](https://github.com/Banuba/ve-sdk-ios-integration-sample/blob/main/mdDocs/ar_cloud.md) to configure AR Cloud in the SDK.

## Getting Started
### Setup SSH key for GitHub
1. Paste Banuba ssh private key into .ssh folder on your Mac. (If .ssh directory doesn't exist - run mkdir -p ~/.ssh')
2. Add ssh private key to SSH authentication agent. Please, use the following command in Terminal:
   ```sh
   sudo ssh-add <banuba-ssh-private-key-file>
   ```
### CocoaPods
Video Editor SDK is available via CocoaPods. If you're new to CocoaPods, refer to the [Getting Started Guide](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html). CocoaPods is the preferred and the simplest way to get the SDK.

**Important**: Make sure that you have installed CocoaPods version >= 1.9.0 installed. Check your CocoaPods version using command `pod --version`.

Please, refer to the [example of Podfile](Example/Podfile) lines which you need to add.

1. Make sure to have CocoaPods installed, e.g. via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):
   ```sh
   brew install cocoapods 
   ```
1. Install Video Editor SDK for the provided Xcode workspace with:
   ```sh
   pod install
   ```
1. Open `Example.xcworkspace` with Xcode and run the project.

### Start Video Editor from ViewController

``` swift
import BanubaVideoEditorSDK

class ViewController: UIViewController {

  private var videoEditorSDK: BanubaVideoEditorSDK?

  override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    initVideoEditor()
  }

  override func viewDidAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewDidAppear(animated)

    videoEditorSDK?.presentVideoEditor(
      from: self,
      animated: true,
      musicTrack: nil,
      completion: nil
    )
  }
  
  private func initVideoEditor() {
    let configuration = VideoEditorConfig()
    videoEditorSDK = BanubaVideoEditorSDK(
      token: "place client token here",
      effectsToken: "place effects token here",
      configuration: configuration,
      analytics: nil,
      externalViewControllerFactory: nil
    )
    videoEditorSDK?.delegate = self
  }
  ...
}

// MARK: - Handle Video Editor lifecycle
extension ViewController: BanubaVideoEditorSDKDelegate {
  func videoEditorDidCancel(_ videoEditor: BanubaVideoEditorSDK) {
    videoEditor.dismissVideoEditor(animated: true, completion: nil)
  }
  
  func videoEditorDone(_ videoEditor: BanubaVideoEditorSDK) {
    videoEditor.dismissVideoEditor(animated: true, completion: nil)
  }
}

```  

The Video Editor has several entry points. It can be launched at the camera screen and at trimmer screen with pre-defined videos:
``` swift
/// Modally presents Video editor's root view controller
/// - Parameters:
///   - hostController: The view controller to display over.
///   - animated: Pass true to animate the presentation.
///   - musicTrack: Music track which will be played on camera recording.
///   - completion: The block to execute after the presentation finishes.
public func presentVideoEditor(
  from hostController: UIViewController,
  animated: Bool,
  musicTrack: MediaTrack? = nil,
  completion: (() -> Void)?
)
          
/// Modally presents Video editor's trim view controller with pre-defined videos
/// - Parameters:
///   - videoItems: An array with urls to videos located on a phone.
///   - hostController: The view controller to display over.
///   - animated: Pass true to animate the presentation.
///   - musicTrack: Music track which will be played on camera recording.
///   - completion: The block to execute after the presentation finishes.
public func presentVideoEditor(
  withVideoItems videoItems: [URL],
  from hostController: UIViewController,
  animated: Bool,
  musicTrack: MediaTrack? = nil, 
  completion: (() -> Void)?
)
```  


### Configure export flow
To export video after the editing is complete use these several methods:
``` swift
/// Export video with default 1280x720 (or 1920x1080 on required devices) resolution
/// - Parameters:
///   - fileUrl: url where exported video should be stored.
///   - completion: completion: (success, error), execute on background thread.
func exportVideo(fileUrl: URL, completion: @escaping (Bool, Error?) -> Void)
  
/// Export video with default 1280x720 (or 1920x1080 on required devices) resolution and cover image
/// - Parameters:
///   - fileUrl: url where exported video should be stored.
///   - completion: completion: (success, error, image), execute on background thread.
/// Preconfigue WatermarkConfiguration in configuration file otherwise will be used default configuration. Default cover image video indent is 0.5 second.
func exportVideoWithCoverImage(fileUrl: URL, completion: @escaping (Bool, Error?, UIImage) -> Void)
  
/// Export several configurable video
/// - Parameters:
///   - configurations: contains configurations for exporting videos such as file url,
///    watermark and video quality
///   - completion: completion: (success, error), execute on the background thread.
func exportVideos(using configurations: [ExportVideoConfiguration], completion: (Bool,Error?)->Void)
  
/// Export several configurable video with cover image
/// - Parameters:
///   - configurations: contains configurations for exporting videos such as file url,
///    watermark and video quality
///   - completion: completion: (success, error, image), execute on the background thread.
func exportVideosWithCoverImage(using configurations: [ExportVideoConfiguration], completion: (_Bool, Error?, UIImage)->Void)
```  
Example export video flow see [here](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L599).
Detailed export video features you can find [here](export_flow.md)

### Configure screens  
The SDK allows to override icons, colors, typefaces, text messages and button titles and many more configuration entities. Every SDK screen has its own set of styles.
Below you can find how to customize VE SDK to bring your experience.

1. [Camera screen](mdDocs/camera_styles.md)
1. [Editor screen](mdDocs/editor_styles.md)
1. [Trim screens](mdDocs/trim_styles.md)
1. [Overlay screens](mdDocs/overlayEditor_styles.md)
1. [Music editor screen](mdDocs/musicEditor_styles.md)
1. [Gallery screen](mdDocs/gallery_styles.md)
1. [Alert screens](mdDocs/alert_styles.md)
1. [Cover screen](mdDocs/cover_styles.md)

The SDK allows overriding icons, colors, typefaces and many more configuration entities. Every SDK screen has its own set of styles.

### Icons
1. Load icons to the Assets catalog.
1. Find the desired screen for an icon in [VideoEditroConfig](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L35) entity.
1. Find the desired UI element in the configuration entity and override the icon with the resource name or put UIImage if an option available.

Example: [how to change the mask icon on the camera screen](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L80).

### Localization
Feel free to edit any text in the SDK app. To localize texts (strings resources)  in video editor go to the lib [Localized.strings](/Example/Example/en.lproj/Localizable.strings) and download the file with text. Then change the text and put it into your app.

**Important**: Do not change keys (left values), override only right values (text itself).  

## FAQ  
Please visit our [FAQ page](mdDocs/faq.md) to find more technical answers to your questions.

## Third party libraries
In progress ...

Commit message:

Add a description to customize the watermark (#44)
* Add settings for the watermark

* Add sample code

* Add a link to the file

* Update link for code with example

* Update README.md

README.md, after:

# Banuba AI Video Editor SDK. Integration sample for iOS.
Banuba [Video Editor SDK](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) allows you to add a fully-functional video editor with Tiktok-like features, AR filters and effects in your app. The following guide explains how you can integrate our SDK into your iOS project. 

<p align="center">
<img src="mdDocs/gif/camera_preview.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto">&nbsp;
<img src="mdDocs/gif/audio_browser.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto"/>&nbsp;
<img src="mdDocs/gif/editor_timeline.gif" alt="Screenshot" width="31.6%" height="auto"/>&nbsp;
</p>

- [Requirements](#Requirements)
- [Dependencies](#Dependencies)
- [SDKs size](#SDKs-size)
- [Free Trial](#Free-Trial)
- [Token](#Token)
- [What can you customize?](#What-can-you-customize)
- [Configure AR cloud](#Configure-AR-cloud)
- [Getting Started](#Getting-Started)
    + [Setup SSH key for GitHub](#Setup-SSH-key-for-GitHub)
    + [CocoaPods](#CocoaPods)
    + [Start Video Editor from ViewController](#Start-Video-Editor-from-ViewController)
    + [Configure export flow](#Configure-export-flow)
    + [Configure screens](#Configure-screens)
    + [Configure watermark](#Configure-watermark)
    + [Icons](#Icons)
    + [Localization](#Localization)
- [FAQ](#FAQ)
- [Third party libraries](#Third-party-libraries)

## Requirements
- Iphone devices 6+
- Swift 5+
- Xcode 12.4+
- iOS 11.0+  

## Dependencies

- [Banuba Face AR SDK](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters). *Optional*

## SDKs size

If you utilize the AR technology with masks (like Tiktok or Snapchat) you would need to have [Face AR module](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters), produced by Banuba. Alternatively, you may just have the app that shoots the video/pics and edit it with no AR feature. Depending on your choice, the SDK size will vary:
| Options | Mb      | Note |
| -------- | --------- | ----- |
| :white_check_mark: Face AR SDK + bitcode enabled  | 42 | AR effect sizes are not included. AR effect takes 1-3 MB in average.
| :x: Face AR SDK + bitcode enabled | 19 | no AR effects  |  

## Free Trial  
We offer а free 14-days trial for you could thoroughly test and assess Video Editor SDK functionality in your app. To get access to your trial, please, get in touch with us by [filling a form](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) on our website. Our sales managers will send you the trial token. Put it into the app, as described below, to run the SDK.  

## Token 
We offer а free 14-days trial for you could thoroughly test and assess Video Editor SDK functionality in your app. To get access to your trial, please, get in touch with us by [filling a form](https://www.banuba.com/video-editor-sdk) on our website. Our sales managers will send you the trial token.

Video Editor token should be put [here](https://github.com/Banuba/ve-sdk-ios-integration-sample/blob/main/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L29).


## What can you customize?

We understand that the client should have options to brand video editor to bring its own experience to the market. Therefore we provide list of options to customize:

:white_check_mark: Use your branded icons. [See details](#Configure-screens)  
:white_check_mark: Use you branded colors. [See details](#Configure-screens)  
:white_check_mark: Change text styles i.e. font, color. [See details](#Configure-screens)    
:white_check_mark: Localize and change text resources. Default locale is :us:  
:white_check_mark: Make content you want i.e. a number of video with different resolutions and durations, an audio file. [See details](#Configure-export-flow)  
:x: Change layout  
:x: Change screen order

:exclamation: We do custom UX/UI changes as a separate contract. Please contact our sales@banuba.com.

### Configure AR cloud

The video editor is able to download AR effects from Banuba server to provide more effects in video editor and save your app size .

Please check out [step-by-step guide](https://github.com/Banuba/ve-sdk-ios-integration-sample/blob/main/mdDocs/ar_cloud.md) to configure AR Cloud in the SDK.

## Getting Started
### Setup SSH key for GitHub
1. Paste Banuba ssh private key into .ssh folder on your Mac. (If .ssh directory doesn't exist - run mkdir -p ~/.ssh')
2. Add ssh private key to SSH authentication agent. Please, use the following command in Terminal:
   ```sh
   sudo ssh-add <banuba-ssh-private-key-file>
   ```
### CocoaPods
Video Editor SDK is available via CocoaPods. If you're new to CocoaPods, refer to the [Getting Started Guide](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html). CocoaPods is the preferred and the simplest way to get the SDK.

**Important**: Make sure that you have installed CocoaPods version >= 1.9.0 installed. Check your CocoaPods version using command `pod --version`.

Please, refer to the [example of Podfile](Example/Podfile) lines which you need to add.

1. Make sure to have CocoaPods installed, e.g. via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):
   ```sh
   brew install cocoapods 
   ```
1. Install Video Editor SDK for the provided Xcode workspace with:
   ```sh
   pod install
   ```
1. Open `Example.xcworkspace` with Xcode and run the project.

### Start Video Editor from ViewController

``` swift
import BanubaVideoEditorSDK

class ViewController: UIViewController {

  private var videoEditorSDK: BanubaVideoEditorSDK?

  override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    
    initVideoEditor()
  }

  override func viewDidAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewDidAppear(animated)

    videoEditorSDK?.presentVideoEditor(
      from: self,
      animated: true,
      musicTrack: nil,
      completion: nil
    )
  }
  
  private func initVideoEditor() {
    let configuration = VideoEditorConfig()
    videoEditorSDK = BanubaVideoEditorSDK(
      token: "place client token here",
      effectsToken: "place effects token here",
      configuration: configuration,
      analytics: nil,
      externalViewControllerFactory: nil
    )
    videoEditorSDK?.delegate = self
  }
  ...
}

// MARK: - Handle Video Editor lifecycle
extension ViewController: BanubaVideoEditorSDKDelegate {
  func videoEditorDidCancel(_ videoEditor: BanubaVideoEditorSDK) {
    videoEditor.dismissVideoEditor(animated: true, completion: nil)
  }
  
  func videoEditorDone(_ videoEditor: BanubaVideoEditorSDK) {
    videoEditor.dismissVideoEditor(animated: true, completion: nil)
  }
}

```  

The Video Editor has several entry points. It can be launched at the camera screen and at trimmer screen with pre-defined videos:
``` swift
/// Modally presents Video editor's root view controller
/// - Parameters:
///   - hostController: The view controller to display over.
///   - animated: Pass true to animate the presentation.
///   - musicTrack: Music track which will be played on camera recording.
///   - completion: The block to execute after the presentation finishes.
public func presentVideoEditor(
  from hostController: UIViewController,
  animated: Bool,
  musicTrack: MediaTrack? = nil,
  completion: (() -> Void)?
)
          
/// Modally presents Video editor's trim view controller with pre-defined videos
/// - Parameters:
///   - videoItems: An array with urls to videos located on a phone.
///   - hostController: The view controller to display over.
///   - animated: Pass true to animate the presentation.
///   - musicTrack: Music track which will be played on camera recording.
///   - completion: The block to execute after the presentation finishes.
public func presentVideoEditor(
  withVideoItems videoItems: [URL],
  from hostController: UIViewController,
  animated: Bool,
  musicTrack: MediaTrack? = nil, 
  completion: (() -> Void)?
)
```  


### Configure export flow
To export video after the editing is complete use these several methods:
``` swift
/// Export video with default 1280x720 (or 1920x1080 on required devices) resolution
/// - Parameters:
///   - fileUrl: url where exported video should be stored.
///   - completion: completion: (success, error), execute on background thread.
func exportVideo(fileUrl: URL, completion: @escaping (Bool, Error?) -> Void)
  
/// Export video with default 1280x720 (or 1920x1080 on required devices) resolution and cover image
/// - Parameters:
///   - fileUrl: url where exported video should be stored.
///   - completion: completion: (success, error, image), execute on background thread.
/// Preconfigue WatermarkConfiguration in configuration file otherwise will be used default configuration. Default cover image video indent is 0.5 second.
func exportVideoWithCoverImage(fileUrl: URL, completion: @escaping (Bool, Error?, UIImage) -> Void)
  
/// Export several configurable video
/// - Parameters:
///   - configurations: contains configurations for exporting videos such as file url,
///    watermark and video quality
///   - completion: completion: (success, error), execute on the background thread.
func exportVideos(using configurations: [ExportVideoConfiguration], completion: (Bool,Error?)->Void)
  
/// Export several configurable video with cover image
/// - Parameters:
///   - configurations: contains configurations for exporting videos such as file url,
///    watermark and video quality
///   - completion: completion: (success, error, image), execute on the background thread.
func exportVideosWithCoverImage(using configurations: [ExportVideoConfiguration], completion: (_Bool, Error?, UIImage)->Void)
```  
Example export video flow see [here](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L599).
Detailed export video features you can find [here](export_flow.md)

### Configure screens  
The SDK allows to override icons, colors, typefaces, text messages and button titles and many more configuration entities. Every SDK screen has its own set of styles.
Below you can find how to customize VE SDK to bring your experience.

1. [Camera screen](mdDocs/camera_styles.md)
1. [Editor screen](mdDocs/editor_styles.md)
1. [Trim screens](mdDocs/trim_styles.md)
1. [Overlay screens](mdDocs/overlayEditor_styles.md)
1. [Music editor screen](mdDocs/musicEditor_styles.md)
1. [Gallery screen](mdDocs/gallery_styles.md)
1. [Alert screens](mdDocs/alert_styles.md)
1. [Cover screen](mdDocs/cover_styles.md)

The SDK allows overriding icons, colors, typefaces and many more configuration entities. Every SDK screen has its own set of styles.

### Configure watermark
One of the SDK features is a watermark. You can add your branded image on top of the video, which user exports.

To use a watermark, you need to create and configure WatermarkConfiguration structure, then add it to ExportVideoConfiguration entity.

Check out [this example](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L629) if you have any troubles.

### Icons
1. Load icons to the Assets catalog.
1. Find the desired screen for an icon in [VideoEditroConfig](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L35) entity.
1. Find the desired UI element in the configuration entity and override the icon with the resource name or put UIImage if an option available.

Example: [how to change the mask icon on the camera screen](/Example/Example/ViewController.swift#L80).

### Localization
Feel free to edit any text in the SDK app. To localize texts (strings resources)  in video editor go to the lib [Localized.strings](/Example/Example/en.lproj/Localizable.strings) and download the file with text. Then change the text and put it into your app.

**Important**: Do not change keys (left values), override only right values (text itself).  

## FAQ  
Please visit our [FAQ page](mdDocs/faq.md) to find more technical answers to your questions.

## Third party libraries
In progress ...
