mdDocs/3rd_party_licences.md, before:

# Banuba VideoEditor SDK
## Third party libraries

### **MIT License**

&quot;Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the &quot;&quot;Software&quot;&quot;), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED &quot;&quot;AS IS&quot;&quot;, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.&quot;

| Name | Link | Copyright info |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Reachability.swift | [https://github.com/ashleymills/Reachability.swift](https://github.com/ashleymills/Reachability.swift) | Copyright (c) 2016 Ashley Mills |
| SSZipArchive | [https://github.com/ZipArchive/ZipArchive](https://github.com/ZipArchive/ZipArchive) | Copyright (c) 2010-2015, Sam Soffes |
| Kingfisher | [https://github.com/onevcat/Kingfisher](https://github.com/onevcat/Kingfisher) | Copyright (c) 2019 Wei Wang |
| SwiftUI-sliders | [https://github.com/spacenation/swiftui-sliders](https://github.com/spacenation/swiftui-sliders) | Copyright (c) 2020 SpaceNation Inc. |

### Face AR SDK
[View](https://docs.banuba.com/face-ar-sdk/overview/3rd_licenses) third party libraries for Banuba Face AR SDK

Commit message:

Added links to new docs website.

mdDocs/3rd_party_licences.md, after:

# Banuba VideoEditor SDK

> [!CAUTION]
> This documentation is deprecated and no longer updated.
> Please check out our [new website](https://docs.banuba.com/ve-pe-sdk/docs/ios/ve-3rd-party) with latest documentation.

## Third party libraries

### **MIT License**

&quot;Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the &quot;&quot;Software&quot;&quot;), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED &quot;&quot;AS IS&quot;&quot;, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.&quot;

| Name | Link | Copyright info |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Reachability.swift | [https://github.com/ashleymills/Reachability.swift](https://github.com/ashleymills/Reachability.swift) | Copyright (c) 2016 Ashley Mills |
| SSZipArchive | [https://github.com/ZipArchive/ZipArchive](https://github.com/ZipArchive/ZipArchive) | Copyright (c) 2010-2015, Sam Soffes |
| Kingfisher | [https://github.com/onevcat/Kingfisher](https://github.com/onevcat/Kingfisher) | Copyright (c) 2019 Wei Wang |
| SwiftUI-sliders | [https://github.com/spacenation/swiftui-sliders](https://github.com/spacenation/swiftui-sliders) | Copyright (c) 2020 SpaceNation Inc. |

### Face AR SDK
[View](https://docs.banuba.com/face-ar-sdk/overview/3rd_licenses) third party libraries for Banuba Face AR SDK
