mdDocs/guide_far_arcloud.md, before:

# Face AR and AR Cloud integration guide

- [Overview](#Overview)
- [Manage effects](#Manage-effects)
- [Integrate AR Cloud](#Integrate-AR-Cloud)
- [Change effects order](#Change-effects-order)
- [Disable Face AR SDK](#Disable-Face-AR-SDK)
- [Integrate Beauty effect](#Integrate-Beauty-effect)
- [Integrate Background effect](#Integrate-Background-effect)

[Banuba Face AR SDK](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters) product is used on camera and editor screens for applying various AR effects while making video content.

## Overview
Any Face AR effect is a folder that includes a number of files required for Face AR SDK to play this effect.

>:exclamation: **Important:** Make sure every effect folder includes ```preview.png``` file. This file is used as a preview for AR effect.

## Manage effects
There are 2 options for managing AR effects:
1. ```bundleEffects``` folder
   Use [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) folder
2. ```AR Cloud```  
   Effects are stored on the remote server.

:exclamation: Important,  
Please, keep the name ```bundleEffects```, otherwise, the app will not start. Create ```bundleEffects``` folder if it does not exist.

:bulb: Recommendation,   
You can use both options i.e. store just a few AR effects in ```bundleEffects``` and 100 or more AR effects  on ```AR Cloud```.

## Integrate AR Cloud
```AR Cloud``` is a cloud solution for storing Banuba Face AR effects on the server and used by Face AR and Video Editor products.  
Any AR effect downloaded from ```AR Cloud``` is cached on the user's device.

Add dependency to [Podfile](../Example/Podfile#L11) to integrate ```AR Cloud``` into your project.
```diff
+  pod 'BanubaARCloudSDK', '1.30.2'
```

Since the link to your AR Cloud bucket is included into the license token. AR effects will appear once you set the license token with AR Cloud link.

## Change effects order
By default, all AR effects are listed in alphabetical order. AR effects from ```bundleEffects``` are listed in the beginning.

Provide your ordered list of effects to  ```preferredMasksOrder``` in ```VideoEditorConfig```
```swift
 videoEditorConfig.recorderConfiguration.recorderEffectsConfiguration.preferredMasksOrder = [
   "XYScanner",
   "Background"
   ...
 ]
``` 

:exclamation: Important  
These are names of specific directories located in ```bundleEffects``` or on ```AR Cloud```.

## Disable Face AR SDK
Video Editor SDK can work without Face AR SDK.
Change [Podfile](../Example/Podfile) to disable Face AR SDK.
```diff
banuba_sdk_version = '1.30.2'

-  pod 'BanubaEffectPlayer', banuba_sdk_version
-  pod 'BanubaSDK', banuba_sdk_version
+  pod 'BanubaSDKSimple', banuba_sdk_version
```

:bulb: Recommendations,  
Please keep in mind, you can remove all AR effects from [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) 
if your license does not include Face AR product.

## Integrate Beauty effect
Video Editor SDK has built in integration with beautification effect - [Beauty](../Example/Example/bundleEffects/BeautyEffects).
The user interacts with ```Beauty``` effect by clicking on specific button on camera screen.  

:exclamation: Important  
```BeautyEffects``` is not shown in the list of all AR effects on camera or editing screens. It is required to store the effect in ```bundleEffects``` and keep name ```BeautyEffects``` with no changes.    
Please move this effect while integrating Video Editor SDK into your project.

## Integrate Background effect
[Background](../Example/Example/bundleEffects/Background) effect allows to apply various images or videos as a background while recording video content on the camera screen.  
The AR effect requires Face AR and can be added to your license.  
Please request this feature from Banuba business representatives.
Add ```Background``` effect either to [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) or  ```AR Cloud```.

Commit message:

Added links to new docs website.

mdDocs/guide_far_arcloud.md, after:

# Face AR and AR Cloud integration guide

> [!CAUTION]
> This documentation is deprecated and no longer updated.
> Please check out our [new website](https://docs.banuba.com/ve-pe-sdk/docs/ios/guide_far_arcloud) with latest documentation.

- [Overview](#Overview)
- [Manage effects](#Manage-effects)
- [Integrate AR Cloud](#Integrate-AR-Cloud)
- [Change effects order](#Change-effects-order)
- [Disable Face AR SDK](#Disable-Face-AR-SDK)
- [Integrate Beauty effect](#Integrate-Beauty-effect)
- [Integrate Background effect](#Integrate-Background-effect)

[Banuba Face AR SDK](https://www.banuba.com/facear-sdk/face-filters) product is used on camera and editor screens for applying various AR effects while making video content.

## Overview
Any Face AR effect is a folder that includes a number of files required for Face AR SDK to play this effect.

>:exclamation: **Important:** Make sure every effect folder includes ```preview.png``` file. This file is used as a preview for AR effect.

## Manage effects
There are 2 options for managing AR effects:
1. ```bundleEffects``` folder
   Use [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) folder
2. ```AR Cloud```  
   Effects are stored on the remote server.

:exclamation: Important,  
Please, keep the name ```bundleEffects```, otherwise, the app will not start. Create ```bundleEffects``` folder if it does not exist.

:bulb: Recommendation,   
You can use both options i.e. store just a few AR effects in ```bundleEffects``` and 100 or more AR effects  on ```AR Cloud```.

## Integrate AR Cloud
```AR Cloud``` is a cloud solution for storing Banuba Face AR effects on the server and used by Face AR and Video Editor products.  
Any AR effect downloaded from ```AR Cloud``` is cached on the user's device.

Add dependency to [Podfile](../Example/Podfile#L11) to integrate ```AR Cloud``` into your project.
```diff
+  pod 'BanubaARCloudSDK', '1.30.2'
```

Since the link to your AR Cloud bucket is included into the license token. AR effects will appear once you set the license token with AR Cloud link.

## Change effects order
By default, all AR effects are listed in alphabetical order. AR effects from ```bundleEffects``` are listed in the beginning.

Provide your ordered list of effects to  ```preferredMasksOrder``` in ```VideoEditorConfig```
```swift
 videoEditorConfig.recorderConfiguration.recorderEffectsConfiguration.preferredMasksOrder = [
   "XYScanner",
   "Background"
   ...
 ]
``` 

:exclamation: Important  
These are names of specific directories located in ```bundleEffects``` or on ```AR Cloud```.

## Disable Face AR SDK
Video Editor SDK can work without Face AR SDK.
Change [Podfile](../Example/Podfile) to disable Face AR SDK.
```diff
banuba_sdk_version = '1.30.2'

-  pod 'BanubaEffectPlayer', banuba_sdk_version
-  pod 'BanubaSDK', banuba_sdk_version
+  pod 'BanubaSDKSimple', banuba_sdk_version
```

:bulb: Recommendations,  
Please keep in mind, you can remove all AR effects from [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) 
if your license does not include Face AR product.

## Integrate Beauty effect
Video Editor SDK has built in integration with beautification effect - [Beauty](../Example/Example/bundleEffects/BeautyEffects).
The user interacts with ```Beauty``` effect by clicking on specific button on camera screen.  

:exclamation: Important  
```BeautyEffects``` is not shown in the list of all AR effects on camera or editing screens. It is required to store the effect in ```bundleEffects``` and keep name ```BeautyEffects``` with no changes.    
Please move this effect while integrating Video Editor SDK into your project.

## Integrate Background effect
[Background](../Example/Example/bundleEffects/Background) effect allows to apply various images or videos as a background while recording video content on the camera screen.  
The AR effect requires Face AR and can be added to your license.  
Please request this feature from Banuba business representatives.
Add ```Background``` effect either to [bundleEffects](../Example/Example/bundleEffects) or  ```AR Cloud```.
